Blog post welcoming Tania as Labs Co-Director (#149)
Quansight-Labs/quansight-labs-site: posts/2021/01/welcome-tania-allard-as-labs-codirector.md

site](https://www.bitsandchips.me/)) is a well-known and prolific PyData
community member. In the past few years she has been involved as a conference
organizer (JupyterCon, SciPy, PyJamas, PyCon UK, PyCon LatAm, JuliaCon and
more), as a community builder (PyLadies, NumFOCUS, RForwards), as a
contributor to Matplotlib and Jupyter, and as a regular speaker and mentor.
She also brings relevant experience in both industry and academia - she joins
us from Microsoft where she was a senior developer advocate, and has a PhD in
computational modelling.

<!-- TEASER_END -->

Tania and I will be working closely together and will jointly lead Labs. This
is an important step in the growth of Labs - in the past two years it grew
from an idea to an open source lab [with over 30 members](/team) who
contribute to key projects in the PyData ecosystem and beyond. Now is the
right time to strengthen the leadership capability of Labs. I already found
Tania and I are both very interested in and on the same wavelength about
community building. That's also how we met in person for the first time,
Tania and I were speaking back to back in the Open Source Communities track

> at SciPy'19. I'm looking forward to lots of interesting conversations about

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at SciPy'19. I'm looking forward to many interesting conversations about
```

everything from governance in open source projects to diversity, equity and

> inclusion (DEI) to funding. Technically we have complementary strengths and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inclusion (DEI) to funding. We have complementary technological strengths and
```

> interests. Tania will be taking the lead on DevOps, visualization and IDEs,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interests. Tania will be taking the lead on DevOps, visualization and IDEs
```

while I will focus on numerical topics.

## Where Labs is today

> Labs has a clear mission and vision, and an open source contribution, funding
> and employment model that I think is both unique and sustainable (see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Labs has a clear mission and vision, and a model for open source contribution, funding
and employment that I think is both unique and sustainable (see
```

[About](/about) for more). I'm particularly proud of the team we've built,
with both established maintainers and new technical talent, as well as a
strong focus on roles other than software development and on DEI. Our team
includes people from 12 countries in 4 continents, and we contribute to many
of the projects at the core of the PyData ecosystem.

![Logos of NumPy, Spyder, JupyterLab and Spyder](/images/numpy_scipy_jlab_spyder_logos.png)

> The established projects we have contributed to the most in 2020 are NumPy,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I would particularly like to mention our contributions in 2020 to NumPy,
```

Spyder, JupyterLab and SciPy. Contributions included a healthy mix of
maintenance and innovation. For NumPy, Spyder and JupyterLab we have 5
maintainers or contributors each, and funding that's continuing in 2021 -
from `numpy.f2py` and documentation improvements to real-time collaboration
in JupyterLab and completing Spyder 5 with a new plugin architecture.

![Logos of Data APIs, Ibis and PyData Sparse](/images/dataapis_ibis_sparse.png)

> Our innovation activities this year included pushing Ibis and PyData Sparse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our innovation activities this year also included pushing Ibis and PyData Sparse
```

forward, two projects with potential that fill holes in the dataframe and

> array library landscape. Most important though was the creation of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
array library landscape. 

I would especially like to call out the creation of the
```

[Consortium for Python Data API Standards](https://data-apis.org/) in
mid-2020. This consortium brings together many array, tensor and dataframe
library maintainers and has the ambitious aim to tackle the problem of

> fragmentation of Python array and dataframe libraries. It published its first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fragmentation of Python array and dataframe libraries. We published our first
```

RFC for an array API standard in November, and there's more to come in 2021.

## What's next?

> Now that we've got an established model and a set of major projects that are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have an established model and a set of major projects that are
```

> well-defined and continuing in 2021, we can focus more on our diverse set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
well-defined and continuing in 2021, we can focus more on a diverse set of
```

> smaller activities in addition to growing the team and organization. There's
> some new projects in the pipeline already that we'll be able to announce in
> the coming weeks and months. I'm sure Tania will also inject her own ideas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
smaller activities in addition to growing the team and organization. New
projects in the pipeline will be announced in the coming weeks and months, 
be sure to watch this space. Tania will also inject her own ideas
```
